After 8 years of trading, there's almost
no strategy that works without these two
essential concepts, including your own
setup. And once you understand them, you
can actually make your own trading plan,
and that's what I'll show you at the end
of this video. So, let's start. Now, the
first question you might have is why
these two? And the reason is very
simple, and it might shock you. And it
is that every strategy you know is
actually based on them, but you don't
usually see it, or maybe they don't show
you. They make you think that there is
some secret behind it. But the reality
is these two concepts. Now, before we go
into the first concept, I want you to,
and this is a task for you, so take it
seriously, pick one to two key levels,
and these are going to be used for the
trading plan at the end of the video.
So, we'll be having a full trading plan
based on the two concepts, and then the
key level that you will be picking from
here, so you could apply it to yourself,
or I'll be picking some levels here. You
would know which ones. Now, you could go
with an imbalance, an order blocks,
support or resistance. Most of these,
you know, they work the same. You could
also do volume profiles, and even things
like engulfing candles, as simple as
this. Actually, anything. Now, the first
thing is market structure, and it comes
in different shapes and different
formations. There only two things that
we need to understand about market
structure. And the first thing is
continuation. And when I say
continuation, that means we need to see
strength, and we need to see break of
structure. Continuation means that if
price is going higher, I want to see it
continuing higher. And as simple as
this, if we can see that we do take this
low, and then we actually close below it
aggressively, and then we go higher, we
retrace higher, and we have strong
bodies closing below, that is a
continuation. So, what we expect after
is a replacement, and then continuation,
another strength. That is what
continuation and break of structure is.
The opposite of break of structure is a
reversal, and it's some market structure
shift, or weakness. Now, strength is
closing aggressively. Weakness is
failing to close, or maybe closing one
candle and then reversing. And imagine
that we're going lower, we're going
lower, but at some point we might be
reversing. And the weakness starts here.
That is what a market structure shift
is. So, take a look at this. We have the
break of structure continuing lower, and
then we create a low, we go higher. Now,
what are we expecting is another break
of structure for continuation. What
happened though is failing to close
below. And I've actually talked a lot
about this here as the first sign of
reversal. But notice what happened
after. We have some weakness. And even
if we close below, what happened after
is closing above the last high that
caused this. Now, what happened here is
as we're going lower, we actually shift
the structure now going higher. So, we
moved from having lower highs to now
going higher, and then probably creating
a higher high, and then a higher low
here. So, now the structure is shifting
higher. Now, what are we expecting?
Because now we do have a continuation
here. We're expecting another
continuation to the upside. Now, this
concept for me is one of the most
important ones. The reason is that the
moment you can identify that break of
structure or market structure shift, so
for example here, then I have a valid
range that I can trade based on. So,
what this gives me is an invalidation, a
clear one, which is the stop loss, and
then a target, a take profit, and a key
level to enter from, which is going to
be in between these two points. So,
basically, what you have is a full
trading plan. However, this thing does
not work without the second concept. One
thing before we continue, if you want to
trade like me, access my trading
strategy that I put together after 8
years of trading. I can give you a
higher reward to risk trade. Anyone to
trade with me, check out It's Cool. The
link is in the description. Let's
continue. And that's the problem most of
the people have is that they teach
market structure, but without the
concept tool that almost any strategy,
and not just a market structure, will
not work without it. So, I'll show you
how to blend the two, and And stay tuned
at the end so I can show you the full
trading plan and you can actually create
one yourself. Now, as I said, not only
that that one is not going to work, the
market structure, but also smart money
concepts is not going to work. Market
structure itself is not going to work.
Chart patterns is not going to work.
Fibonacci and all of the different
strategies that you're using without
this one concept is not going to work.
And even if you just stay for this one,
understand it and apply it to your own
setup, you actually learn something from
this video. So, what is it? It's time
for an alignment or top-down analysis.
And it's basically you're analyzing the
chart based on multiple time frames.
This could be three time frames, it
could be two time frames, depending on
your trading style. And I'll show you
both of them. So, simply, what we're
trying to do is take a look at the big
picture and trade based on the small
picture or do the opposite. Based on the
small picture, I will look at the big
picture in order to validate the small
picture. And for me, this is one of the
most important concepts ever. The moment
you apply this, you have an automatic
bias, a higher reward-to-risk simply.
You could go from two to one to five to
one just by applying this simple
concept. Now, you already know the key
level that you picked, even if you
trade, for example, anything, order
block, fair value gaps, anything. You
will remember that one and you need to
also remember the type of trading that
you want to focus on. So, are you more
of a swing trader? Are you more of a day
trading or scalping? You want to pick
one of these combination of time frames
based on the trading style that you
prefer. So, for example, we could do a
higher time frame of 4-hour with 15
minutes or you could do a daily with
1-hour. So, simply, a combination that
fits your trading style, your
availability, and the way you would like
to trade the market. Simply, what we're
looking for is a higher time frame key
level. This could be, for example, a
4-hour level. And then we're switching
to the lower time frame whenever price
comes here. And I'll show you how. So,
this high time frame level, again, could
be anything, even a moving average. And
then we're looking for the lower time
frame. The The you understand this, you
already have an edge in the market. All
right, so whatever key level that you
picked at the beginning of the video, I
want you to do the same thing that I'm
doing right now, but with your own key
level. I'll be using the easiest key
level that I could ever use. I will not
complicate it, just to prove that you
can actually do this yourself. The more
mastery, the more repetition you put,
the better results that you're going to
get. So, but simply, the key level is
going to be engulfing candle. So, for
example, we do have Let's think this is
a bullish candle. Then, a bullish candle
comes and engulfs the previous one. It
could be in one or two candles. Now, one
more thing is that you can use three
time frames or two time frames for the
time frame alignment, and the difference
is going to be for the three time
frames, you add one higher time frame to
the left. So, if I'm using 4-hour
15-minute, this is going to be my key
level, the 4-hour 15-minute is my
confirmation, but then another thing to
confirm the direction and make it even
better is to add a weekly. And now you
have three time frames. So, notice what
happened here, and keep it as simple as
this. Notice what happened. If I can see
that, for example, price is reacting off
a weekly, you have another alignment,
but in this case, this is what I'm
seeing is that we do have an engulfing
candle, and we have some weakness at the
top, so we have weakness failing to
displace, and then going lower.
Engulfing candle, and this is the candle
that was engulfed. This is our key
level. Some people would call it order
block, some people would call it supply
and demand. We'll keep it simple here,
so anyone can use it and as an engulfing
candle. Simply, go to the 15-minute time
frame. So, that simple two candles
formation is actually a market structure
shift in its own in the lower time
frame. So, that's one way of using the
two concepts is that at the key level, I
want to ensure that that key level
actually initiate a market structure
range to trade from again. Another way
to do it is actually just when price
goes higher, I want to see another
structure of this range, and then you
can be trading based on this lower. So
playing the price action and I can see
simply that this is a valid structure
already. So it could be simply looking
for a confirmation here. Now
confirmation is you could be looking for
an engulfing candle or you could be
looking for an alignment. So for this
one just a simple candle aligning with a
key level that is could be an entry for
me. Okay, and targeting maybe 2:1, 3:1.
So randomly taking this, playing the
price action, not actually a valid
structure. But price pushing lower you
could be looking for the continuation
from this range as well again. And then
notice how again we have another one. So
now this is a valid structure happening
off here. So could be looking for the
continuation because this is coming off
a valid key level. However, switching to
the lower time frame. Now price is going
down to the target, but one thing that
we notice happening is that we actually
have another engulfing candle. So notice
how this is a retracement to the upside,
engulfing candle marking this as my
engulfing and then we could also look
for the confirmation of here. And making
sure that this actually have a valid
structure, which we already saw here, is
that yeah, this is actually a valid
structure. And you notice how price did
not go there yet, but getting very close
to it. We could be using this as
liquidity, which is a good concept to
understand. We're not going to be
focusing on every higher low, but the
ones that matters. So now price it gets
close to the key level that we had,
which is the engulfing candle. We go to
15-minute time frame and simply the
moment price goes there, we could be or
you know, whenever we have an alignment,
we could be entering. So playing the
price action. We notice price going
there. For me this is an alignment even
though it's a bit weak. So if you want
to enter based on this, you need to
cover, you know, have a bit of a bigger
stop loss. So you could be doing this
just based on the alignment and then a
stop loss here because I think price
could go back of there. You could be
entering based on this engulfing candle.
So another entry that is more safe and
then [snorts] targeting the low again.
In the price action, that's where price
goes to aggressively and immediately. In
this case, we do not have the best
structure, but here we do have a break
of structure, and we're trading actually
with the structure going lower. So, this
setup is more safe than this, because
this one we only take base on a key
level, but this one is a key level on
the higher time frame, and also
structure on the higher time frame and
the lower time frame. Now, if you're
using three time frames, then it's going
to be a bit different, because now
you'll be using the key level on the
higher time frame, and then you want to
look for a structure created off that
key level, and this is the structure
that you'll be looking for and to trade
a continuation from. Not every
structure, because sometime I'll be
seeing a break of structure, but then
there's not going to be a continuation
from it. What's the reason? This one
here might not be happening off a key
level, for example, on the higher time
frame. But this one might be happening
off a higher time frame, and that's why
we had a continuation lower. I can see
that we do have a break of structure
happening here, but then it did not
work. But then, we do have kind of a
structure going lower here. Not the best
one for me, but then as we go lower, we
have another break of structure. Now,
this one is strong one. Now, you want to
be looking for, and in this case, you
want to see is the structure happening
off a higher time frame key level?
Because if it's happening, and when I
say key level, it could be anything. So,
this is a question that you'll be
answering based on your key levels and
based on your trading plan. So, if this
makes sense for me and it's reacting off
a higher time frame key level, then what
I'll do is look for the continuation
lower, because this is a strong range
here. Now, for example, we go to 4-hour
time frame, and let's say you're using
imbalances, and you would notice that,
okay, I'm actually having an imbalance
here where price action reacted from.
So, this could be, and you could go here
15 minute or 5 minute. Now, on the 5
minute there was something more specific
and to be clear, you could be sometime,
you know, it's not like 1 hour you
should always do the 5 minute. You could
be flexible sometime doing 15 minute and
sometime even 1 minute. So, feel free to
be a bit more flexible depending on the
situations. In this case, we can see
that 5 minute actually give this
weakness and then break of structure.
So, you could simply look for the
continuation of this range. The reason
is simply because this came off a higher
time frame key level. So, you could be
selling from here, you know, anywhere
inside of this range. And I could be
also doing 15 minute and look for, for
example, this imbalance here and then
you want to have a stop loss above and
target somewhere in here because this is
a whole 4 hour range. So, we do have
this
4 hour break of structure going lower
and then we might be having another
break of structure. So, this is how it
goes, okay? Now, it gets you here and
then notice how the four what the 4 hour
does. Now, in this case, it does not go
to the take profit, okay? But it gave
around 8 to 1. So, this is still valid
and notice how
basically because you're trading off a
higher time frame key level, that
structure on the 15 minute is valid now.
So, what validates the structure is
actually the higher time frame key
level. So, this is what we see. A lot of
time we see this happening, price going
lower and then we have a break of
structure. What will happen is a
continuation down. And then sometime we
do have this, but it's a continuation
up. The main difference is that here we
might not have the best key level, but
in this case here we have the best key
level and that's where we had the real
push to the upside and that's where the
real change in the market structure was
happening. So, in order to validate the
structure, we use a higher time frame
key level. That's how you can be, you
know, using three time frames. But when
you're using two time frames, you could
be simply trading this here that had a
key level. So you could be simply
looking for the structure that for you
is valid, okay, without a key level,
without anything here, but simply a
structure that is valid, a key level
that is inside of it that is also valid,
and simply you'll be looking for the
confirmation just right here. So that's
it for today's video, a very simple one.
If you have questions, leave them in the
comments. Make sure to check out each
school if you want to learn my higher
reward to risk trading setup, and you
want to trade with me. That's it, and
I'll see you next one. Bye-bye.